So, this is what you're here for. 2026
will be the year of the of Agentic
Search. That's what Joe and I are going
to talk about.
And Joe, of course, I'll let you
introduce yourself in a minute, but
yeah, many people may know him as uh he
was a long time at Vespa.
I think really came into his own. Really
started to hear a lot from him in the
years around when RAG was really coming
out, speaking the truth of how Perch is
actually built to the RAG folks.
Um, and now he's CEO of Hornet, which is
trying to build a gentic an agentic
search engine uh, search for agents, not
just for people. Of course, I'm Doug for
those who don't know me. I have done
search in some form since about 2013.
Done all kinds of consulting and I do a
lot of training these days.
I do these events frequently, roughly
once a week.
Um,
in a couple weeks I'm going to host as
another event Hugo uh Bound Anderson who
is a great person to just learn about
build learn from about building agents.
He's going to give a great talk on uh
sort of his experience building agents
and not stressing out about all of the
it's very easy to get FOMO if you watch
social media for this stuff and that if
you're solving a problem you're probably
need like 10% of that right and it's
picking the right 10%. So he's going to
give a talk on that.
Uh, next week is Haystack. So, I'll be
there. That's why Renee is here. It may
be a quick turnaround if you're not
already in the east coast of the US to
come out, but uh, definitely come out.
It's a conference dedicated to search
relevance, search retrieval.
Happens once a year in the US on the
East Coast and once a year in Europe.
So, if you miss this one, there'll be
one hopefully in the fall.
Uh finally or not finally but uh last
and ultimately I'll be teaching my
search 101 class at search essentials.
This is a great chance if you just have
no idea about search concepts. It's a
free course I teach. It's just threehour
sessions with notebooks and things that
I've in my back pocket to learn things
like what is BM25 or what is an
embedding?
What do we even think about evaluating
search results? So really like core
concepts of search
and yeah check that out. You can always
find it software.com/sarch101.
And finally for if you want to support
all the tokens I spend writing blog
articles. I appreciate anyone who wants
to come to my class cheat with agents.
and I we talk about things from building
good harnesses to what retrieval looks
like for search and what uh doing things
like auto research with agents with the
search space. All of these things that
seem to come up a lot with the search
teams I'm talking to in my consulting
practice.
So yeah, that's it for events coming up.
I think Joe, do you want to introduce
yourself really quickly? just uh
anything I didn't cover?
>> No, I think you did a great job. Um
>> Okay.
>> I I can add a few words maybe. Um yeah.
So, hi everyone. I'm Joe. I been working
in search for quite some time. Um I
started actually on web search engine
that was built here in Tronim called the
webb.com.
And this was back in 2001. So I've been
in the search space for my entire
professional career and now we are
building a company and a new type of
retrieval engine that is built for
agents. It's new type of
new type of user of of search
infrastructure. So I'm quite excited
about joining you tonight and uh talking
about agentic search and agentic
retrieval. What's changing? What's not
changing? Um, I think it's very
interesting period we are in. So excited
to be here, Doug.
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> Yeah. Um, and maybe just to kick things
off, I'm I'm
like one thing I've noticed and I'm
curious to get your take on this is, um,
noticed there's Well, first of all, when
people say agentic search, they probably
mean like four or five different things.
>> Yeah,
>> that's one thing I've noticed. Um
I'm I'm curious to get your take on
this. Like one delineation I see for
agentic search is you have people who
build on one side you have people who
build really rich and robust harnesses
to uh try to make sure that they're
gathering the relevant information from
whatever search tools they're using. And
a lot of their effort is spent in part
because we're all learning how to build
harnesses right now. a lot of their
effort is spent like on the harness side
of things
and then on the other side what when
people talk sometimes when people talk
about agentic search they're talking
about topics which I think are
are I'm only like recently realizing are
fairly different which is um
the case I just earlier described like
assumes you're using the agent's
knowledge but what about cases where
you're the agent needs knowledge and
that feels more like well that's what I
see with like people using
multi vector search or like more um what
I think of more as like now deep
research
>> and I'm curious to get your take on that
or any other areas where definitions or
categories of agentic search you see in
the marketplace.
Yeah, I think uh this is an interesting
topic because
uh I think it was Boris, the guy from
Entropic that uh invented clo code. He
went on [clears throat]
>> he went on the latent space podcast and
talked about how claw code was not using
rag and was instead using aentic search.
And that was kind of a fun moment
because then everyone said essentially
that oh rag is dead and agentic search
is the new thing. And the definition
then of agentic search was that you have
a agent and a harness that is
essentially performing GP uh over your
codebase to uh get context to the to the
model. And this kind of created this rag
is dead. um team I would say uh and I
think that's because people associate
rag with the full kind of vector
database uh embed everything uh do a
similarity search and for a lot of
people new in the space rag meant
exactly that right so then suddenly
agentic search was a new thing because
uh and that was associate using gp I
personally my Definition of agentic
search is essentially that you have
search infrastructure or a search tool.
Uh you can call it harness maybe it's a
stretch but the key point is that it's
the agent that decides the query
formulation. Uh for me that is so it's
not me typing the query it's the agent
that is typing the query into the search
box. So that's my kind of broad
definition of of agentic search that the
agent is the new user. uh it's for the
the queries. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And how I'm curious how agents
uh how agents search differently than
people
>> if you have thoughts on that. Yeah.
>> Oh yeah. I have I have so many thoughts
on this. I think the most interesting
>> you know I'm I'm I'm a benchmark guy. I
love looking at benchmarks and one of
the most interesting benchmarks out
there when it comes to deep uh research
and aentic search is browser comp plus.
is about 830 very difficult questions
that are more like a pub quiz type of
question. Uh really long question uh
with a lots of hints and years and
whatnot and you have a relatively short
answer. So it's quite easy to judge the
overall response of the model and you
have a fixed corpus of about 105,000
uh web pages. Mhm.
>> And this is this is like a really gold
mine uh of a data set. So I recommend
everyone to check it out.
>> And if you look at the trajectories, so
essentially the harness is very simple.
It's a simple prompt, just a few
paragraphs like you're a search
assistant blah blah blah. You have a
question and here's a search tool. And
the search tool is simply search and it
takes a string. And that tool in the
official benchmark protocol returns five
hits uh truncated by the 512 first
tokens.
>> Mhm.
>> And then you can look at the
trajectories. So on average you have
about 25 search calls that the agent is
like deciding to search and reason and
search and search and reason.
>> Interesting. Yeah.
>> And I spent a lot of time gpping and
analyzing this data and one of the
surprising findings is that one the
queries are really long.
>> So there's about 23 query terms, right?
So this is definitely not like AOL
search log from uh back in the day,
right? Where you had about two terms on
average.
>> That's one big change. But the most
surprising thing is there's a lot of
phrase queries. A lot of phrase queries.
And even if you haven't told the agent
like
>> what is the query syntax that the engine
supports is doing phrases, it's doing
site, it's doing all kinds of things. Uh
so I find that interesting. Um yeah.
>> Yeah, that's really interesting. And um
agents can really drive a lot of these
like syntaxes that you give it. Uh so
yeah, I find that really interesting. Um
is anyone I I want to make sure it's
open. So if anyone else has any thoughts
or comments or questions, feel free to
raise your hand or or jump in with
anything.
Yeah, I've I've uh Tito says a agents
doing phrase search more than humans is
fascinating, surprising. You know, one
thing about an agent that's interesting
in that regard is they also have a great
deal more patience than humans. So if
you gave agents
some way of um searching like I think
you said it might issue go through like
15 or 20 different search goals or
something like this. Agents will sort of
exhaustively go through and
spend the time to go through things in a
way that and and analyze them and reason
about them and also reason about cause
and effect. So if I if I stimulate the
search this way, this comes back.
>> Yeah.
>> Um in a way that is somewhat reminiscent
of a human researcher using an advanced
search tool. Uh but I don't think we
have the patience. [laughter]
>> Maybe we maybe some people have the
patience, but I don't have the patience
for that anymore.
So, another thing that I think is
interesting is just
sometimes when you see these um
sometimes it's I don't I'd be curious to
get your take because one take I have
and feel free to disagree with this is
agents sometimes do better with
predictable search tools than they do
with search tools where it's not easy to
reason about the cause and effect why
results came back the way they did
>> which which yeah
>> yeah I think this is obviously in
browser comp plus the harness the prompt
is really simple.
So the trajectories you get the the
queries that the agent is executing
are really in a way just showing us the
pure way how the GPT5 model was trained
uh within learning
>> and whatever data went into that mix.
It's certainly web search oriented with
using the the query syntax that is
supported by Bing and Google and others.
>> Yeah. Mhm.
>> I think there are like 5% of the 20,000
qu queries that were executed that were
actually including the site operator. So
if you've been around for some time,
Google if you type site colon like
restricted to a certain domain
>> that's in there. uh year, ranges, things
of that nature. Um,
>> and I see Tito here wondering if Oh,
sorry. Stro says presumably they agent
have access to the full programmatic
search syntax. Yes, they could have if
if the prompt included it, but in the
browser comp plus harness and the
setting and the protocol, it's pure the
search tool is just a string, right?
Yeah.
>> So,
>> yeah, it's interesting. Obviously if you
prompt it differently if you say here's
the syntax that is supported then
obviously it can uh use that information
while searching through right but in
that they don't have that. Yeah.
>> Yeah. There's a when you design agents,
there's an interesting thing where
>> if you stay roughly aligned to their
training data,
>> you where agents tend to LLMs tend to
want to veer back towards the tool usage
it knows from the training data.
>> Exactly. The one one reason that people
can get some reasonably good results out
of GP over a file system of a knowledge
base even an extensive knowledge base is
in part because the frontier labs have
spent so much time training that
specific thing
and same with web search. Yeah,
>> I think that's a very important
observation is whatever you're doing uh
relating to harness or whatnot, right?
You should look at what the frontier
model companies are optimizing for.
>> Yeah.
>> What is the training mix? And currently
the training mix is heavily biased
towards coding and using the computer
through GP etc. Right? And if you use a
coding agent, you will see that they are
very effective at using GP, right?
Multiple trade formulations going into
the same GP. Um, and you can exploit
that. Uh, you know, you can expose
search infrastructure that supports GP,
right? If you somehow have something
that is indexed, you can essentially
say, "Oh, you can GP." and then you
intercept that GP call and you can
translate that into uh actual search
request to the to the engine. So I think
that's a lot of the current harness
engineering is about optimizing for
whatever the model companies are doing.
>> And when you're doing that, you're
essentially putting yourself on the
trajectory of the models getting better
and your harness and performance will
automatically get better, right? H
>> so
>> yeah I think it's interesting because I
think in um well to get to maybe answer
Tito's question really quick or discuss
that is one he's wondering if agents
have a search query formulation feedback
loop based on the results.
>> Yeah.
>> And I I definitely see that and you can
see that in the p in the if you read any
of the
>> like a lot of to the original tool usage
papers actually search is a very front
and center tool. It's probably the early
on at least it's the number one tool
probably talked about
>> and you see that you see like oh I
issued this search for some Apple remote
but I messed up oh it didn't seem like
the results were right let me try new
query so you definitely see stuff like
that
>> yeah no it definitely you can you you
find so many if you look at the
trajectories from browser chrome plus uh
you can download them from hugging face
hugging
And it's almost entertaining to see how
the model is trying first broadly and
then uh going down into a certain
direction and then coming back doing
something else and then finally figuring
out right so they're definitely
they're definitely learning from what
they're observing and what they're
seeing. And this also is a very
interesting aspect from for for me has
been in the search industry for a so
long time
>> and that is that we usually kind of
built the systems around doing a single
query right you had query
>> 100%
>> like query when I was at Yahoo there was
like a team probably like 40 50 people
just working on query understanding um
right across the entire Yahoo surface
Mhm.
>> And then you would forward that query
into a specific vertical and that
vertical will do some similar query
understanding. For example, if it was
forwarded to local search, you would
like try to figure out if this is
looking for a business or a particular
business or a category.
And I feel all of that now except from
latency and complexity and all of that
if we put that aside is like essentially
almost like a solve problem. Um, and if
you in in certain domains where you
>> you're not constrained by having to have
submillisecond latency or things like
that, right? Let
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Let the agent rip through the data and
you get a much better response, right?
>> So, I'm I'm like and I I I'm been
working on so many big systems and large
QPS, hundred thousands of QPS, billions
of documents and whatnot. And it kind of
have influenced my thinking around
things being like oh you can only do one
query you have to care about latency
performance and cost but there are so
many domains that you don't have the
scale you don't have the problems with
it it doesn't matter if 5 seconds right
because if the response is great so I
think like the whole search industry and
all of us veterans we're like so biased
about oh we have to make it super fast
we can only do single query but there's
so many use cases where you you know
you're not operating in the scale, you
can just let the agent rip through. So,
>> absolutely. Yeah. Um, and you can
premputee a lot of stuff too. So, you
can
>> you can uh a lot of what I do in my
courses, we just talk about like of
course everyone asks, "Isn't this going
to be slow if we have an LM helping us
do query understanding,
>> but even in regular search and I see
people doing this now, it's just people
people default to, well, let me just
have a nightly job. Maybe I'll self-host
a model. It doesn't have to be big to
like and it's funny because I'm in the
same camp like people would spend very
highly educated people would spend a lot
of time spell like how do I spellch
checkck this type of query
>> and that would be a multi-month project
and now it's just like the LLM just does
it.
>> Yeah. or the I will say like for like
the 80% use case
where it gets interesting is probably
the 20 the 20% or 10% that's left over
that's not like general knowledge
but for a lot of what we used to do that
was very extensive and but just
like for English or something common
typos that it's easy to now we just take
that for granted that there's a large
language model that will help us figure
that out and it's not that hard to self
host and fix some queries or whatever.
>> Yeah.
>> So I think it's interesting
>> definitely exciting times uh regarding
query understanding and also obviously
on document understanding and obviously
there are companies that have
complexity around performance and scale
etc. Mhm.
>> My key observation here is that I've
been working with a lot of search teams,
>> but the case is that there's only been a
few organizations that actually have
invested in search teams, right? It's
e-commerce, it's the Yahoos, it's the
Google, it's the Shopify.
So very few organizations actually in
the world have invested in search and
search relevancy
>> and now I think you have to invest in
search relevancy because if you actually
want to make agents work if it's deep
research if it's coding agent you see
that retrieval is
>> central in the in it's so central right
because ofment
and and getting whatever relevant
information you need to get the the job
done, right? Uh so that for me is really
interesting that so many are now
working on getting search right and and
I think a a nice segue would be to start
talking about the actual implementation.
You mentioned late interaction, you
mentioned embeddings, you mentioned BM25
>> and that's a great kind of what is
working and what is not working and can
you like and that's also I think
is where people miss is that oh GP is
all you need but yeah GP is great and
I'm I'm not concerned about GP as a
scanning mode versus indexing mode and
things like that but also it has
limitations in terms of expressing how
you actually score documents uh right
that's a big oneite quite interesting.
>> Uh so I think there still you need some
hybrid search capability where there's
no like single silver bullet if it's
late interaction or single vector or
BM25. I think a good retrieval engine
for agents actually needs to support
multiple different retrieval techniques.
And then the interesting point is if you
expose this as dedicated search tools or
if you just wrap it into one search tool
which is also related to the discussion
about optimizing for whatever the
frontier models have trained uh the
models to do in terms of tool calling
and the name of the tool is also quite
important. So
>> yeah I've seen so I've seen two ends of
the spectrum. I've seen people basically
do
the on the one hand and uh the frontier
labs have trained trained the uh their
models to believe that a search tool is
basically going to be pretty good
search. It's going to be a Google scale
search. And so that would kind of argue
to her you should just build one
retrieval function that's pretty good
that's that sort of acts like web
search. M
>> going against that we're mostly not
implementing web search and we're mostly
not going to be as good at Google as
doing this. So the other end of the
spectrum is a case where you basically
completely unbundle the search stack and
um earlier you would like in the classic
search stack maybe you have some
retrieval arms like your L0 retrieval
that's like maybe single your embeddings
or your BM25 and then [snorts] on top of
that you have some kind of reranker and
it could be anything it could be multi
vector could be whatever um I it's also
interesting to think about okay well
what if I just give those all of those
Lego pieces to an agent. Say, "Here is a
here's your here's your lexical search
tool. Here's your embedding search tool.
If you're going to use the embedding
search tool, ask a question because it
this embedding model performs better
with that. The lexical is keyword-
based, blah blah blah." Yeah.
>> And then like say if you want to
evaluate the search results, use this
reranker or something that kind of gives
you a sense of what's more relevant than
another.
Um that's another interesting
architecture that's like well in that
case we're kind of watching the agent in
a way figure out to retrieve relevant
documents that satisfies this
re-recorder.
I don't know what the right answer is
but uh I see people doing basically all
of these things uh and sort of going
crazy with lots of different things
usually not even necessarily reanker but
I think the more classic thing is like
an LLM judge that they like or
something. M
>> so yeah
>> I think it's a fantastic uh observation
and I and I obviously
just like you said uh if you expose like
here's a semantic search tool uh when
you're using this tool uh use natural
questions.
>> Yeah.
>> And there's a follow-up work on the
browser comp data set from the guys at
the University of Glasgow. I I can see
if I can find it. Um,
>> oh, I think I know this paper. Yeah,
>> it's called something about revisiting
text ranking uh for deep research where
they essentially demonstrate that with a
simple hardness the model is actually
performing keyword oriented queries.
Mhm.
>> So they find that the semantic search if
you put a semantic search implementation
below this search tool it doesn't
actually perform that well
>> because
>> exactly
>> those embedding models have been trained
on data sets like natural questions MS
Marco which are all like
>> questionoriented right so they actually
like build a translation layer to
translate like keyword queries into more
natural questions That's funny.
>> That actually could uh lift the
embedding base retrieval, right? So
that's interesting. But does this work
well or not? Like overall I think here
the problem is simply that
if you start giving the model like
here's 10 search tools. It's not used to
that from the pre-trending phases,
right? It's
>> exactly
>> right. So I think you should think a
little bit about that when you're
building a harness around it. what's the
tool called when it's used and and
trained in the pre-training or sorry not
the post- training and you can see this
it the GP OSS model and you can see the
tool layout there and it's trained to
use this tool and so I think you should
actually try to stick to that tool name
because that's what it's used to using
and not confusing with 100 difference of
of search methods, but obviously you
want to build some level of evals. Evals
is still still still
>> Yeah, evals are king. So, yeah, still
got to measure.
>> Yeah, but we we've seen this with some
in in Hornet too when we've been both
with our design partners and also uh our
internal work on agents is that tool
names is quite important. Um, so you can
actually change accuracy of the overall
task quite significantly by simply
renaming the tool.
>> Yeah, that's that's really interesting.
I I've seen similar things too with um
talking about I still need to measure
this because I've said this a few times.
So I need to measure this more
quantitatively. But I think I think
agents if you tell an agent this is
three out of five relevant or this is
four out of five relevant.
That doesn't work as well as if you say
this made the user feel happy or
unhappy.
Uh there's something about making the
user happy that's like another hack one
of these hacks because you know these
things uh you know these things are are
like
>> basically like you know are focused on
like a specific they're pleasing the
user and that kind of thing. So
>> yeah they're sick of fantic.
>> Yeah. And the other thing you can do is
um you can sometimes do these things not
necessarily even as a tool call
>> but as a like as part of the feedback
you get like the sort of automated like
in clawed code and other things there's
like hooks and things like when the
agent comes back you can say oh actually
those aren't relevant or something like
this. So I've also seen that
>> as more of like an automated steps.
>> I see there's uh there's a question uh
from the chat. What are your thoughts
about native indexing versus doing
federated MCP calls? Can native indexing
still provide quality benefits with
these frontier models? Um I think that's
uh okay. So by federated MCP calls I'm
assuming that you mean that hey we have
a set of data silos and each of them
provides a search tool and I want to
connect them with my agent versus
pulling that data out of these silos and
having more of a kind of universal
index. I'm not sure that's my reading of
the question. I'm not sure about you
Doug.
Yeah, I I uh as I I think that's true.
My my sense of that is when we do just
as and this is my old man search
perspective.
>> When we answer when we build an index,
we're building it to an to be good at
answering or specific questions or
accessing data in a specific way. And so
federating to all these MCPS, they may
not be optimized to answer the questions
that you care about. Um, and so I think
there's there is incremental value into
building an index that's like targeting
the questions the kinds of questions you
want to answer and the ways that you
want to rank results
>> that might not be available like you
might have a piece of the picture on
this MCP and a piece of the picture over
there. So my bias as a search person is
to build some kind of index. Um, that
said, I know agents can are quite
resilient. They can do a lot with like
some basic dumb tools, but I do think
you would get incremental value by
actually building like a real index.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm also an old search guy, so
I have the same answer. [laughter]
>> I think also generally most tools or
data silos usually don't have a great
built-in search. So whatever MCP tool is
built on top of it, it's usually just
wrapping whatever search is is there and
it's usually based on some kind of
database
uh search which is not essentially
trying to optimize for relevancy. At
least that's my my experience, but I'm
obviously biased here. What I do think
and I think you also noticed this in
some of your blog posts is that if you
give the agent a pretty dumb search
tool. So if we call BM25 dumb
>> uh it actually works much better when
you have a agent because you can the
agent will reformulate the query. It
will explore. So I think actually
um the the ceiling of dumb retrievers
are not now much higher because of it's
the agent that is doing the query right
it can do the reformulation etc. And I
saw a blog post float by the other day
where the best performing kind of
retrieval it was essentially letting the
agent do its thing but uh comparing
single shot versus multi-shot. So the
agent could do one query and then you
analyze the retrieval accuracy.
Um and obviously the method that really
performed well when when you let the
agent actually search multiple times,
right? Uh so if so even a dumb retriever
is now better because you have a better
searcher, you have like a librarian like
expert at searching at your disposal. So
>> yeah, you have the um I mean embedding
models are highly related to LLMs and
and now the semantic layer becomes the
LLM and not the embedding model. So
>> that's I think that is true and I think
it's also like getting back to
interpretability like
>> I have seen in my experiments
the agent will understand why
why the why search failed more readily
with a keyword search because the
failure modes of keyword search are
obvious. It's like oh wait this term is
ambiguous so therefore it returned this
this result. I'm trying to think of an
example, but oh, dress shoes for some
reason. Oh, I got dresses back. Oh, I
need to maybe maybe I should rewrite
this to be more specific or these this
kind of thing.
>> Yeah.
>> Fantastic fantastic tool. Uh,
and the way and and by the way, I'm I'm
working on a blog post. Um, obviously
I'm so fascinated by the browser comp
plus data set. There's a BM BM25
baseline in there.
But it turns out that baseline is
terrible.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yeah. It's unbelievable.
And the reason is this is that they're
running with the Anserini
defaults which has been tuned for
uniform passage length type of
retrieval.
>> Browser comp plus has
>> that's like web documents.
>> Web documents, right? And
Yeah, it's it the difference is
shocking. I'll tell you.
>> Oh,
>> I wouldn't I I know that I know Anserini
has tuned BM25 parameters a lot for MS
Marco and stuff.
>> I'm really surp
>> Yeah, those are short. I'm s I'm but I
am surprised how big of a difference it
could make if uh
>> it's it's huge.
>> So, yeah, the the the blog post the
current title of it is uh BM25. Wait,
which BM25 do you mean? So it opens with
these two methods retrieval are both
BM25 but one is 30% point better than
the other and simply by tuning two
parameters right so
uh still BM25 is still a great baseline
if you at least make one effort at at uh
adjusting the parameters. So
>> it's it's also the kind of thing and
this is a important thing for folks who
don't consume research in the field as
much but it's very easy to make a weak
BM25 baseline
>> y
>> so that your approach looks really good.
>> Exactly.
>> And I've accidentally done that myself
where I'm like oh look I made search
better but and then I go back and I
realize maybe my BM25 just tuned a bit
would it's just too weak or something or
Yeah. So just a word to the wise if
you're consuming this stuff.
>> Yeah. Another funny paper related to
browser comp plus is that someone wrote
a paper about hey what if we just lay
out all the documents in a flat file
structure and we simply use a coding
agent to get the question. It has access
to grap, tail, head, all the ways the
agent can kind of look into the data and
it performs really really well, right?
Because instead of just
returning five chunks and all the chunks
are kind of truncated after 512 tokens,
the coding agent is like, "Oh, here's a
document. I can like, okay, let's do
head. Let's let's do grab. let's figure
out where it matches in the document and
then you like get a really really high
score on on the on the on the entire
eval. And I I think it's it's a very
refreshing paper. I know obviously if
you're building retrieval for
infrastructure for billion scale this
this might be a very bad bad idea but it
also demonstrates that if you put
yourself and the harness
in on the kind of trajectory of the
model and what the models are good at
then you can actually uh benefit a lot
from that. So I see raised hand from
Cody.
Yeah, Cody, you want to jump in?
>> Yeah, thank you. Sorry, I didn't know
they moved the the hand button. You guys
were talking about this a second ago,
and I want to see if if your experience
is is telling you anything. Um, one of
the clear messages I hear here is like
how we can give more and more tools,
even if they're basic tools, to the
agents, let them be a little more
exhaustive, more queries, lower latency,
all that stuff is like super cool for
rethinking search. But it also seems to
put like a whole lot of onus on like
postmatch filtering on the agent side.
And then like at the same time I think
it was Joe I think it was Lester maybe
who like wrote a post
>> who pointed out that a lot of research
is saying even just one or two slightly
bad results can really throw like an
agent conversation off the further you
go down the tree. So like those two
things seem to be kind of like in
conflict with each other. Like what is
that telling us? Is that saying that we
need we still need to move most of the
refinement behind the tool call like in
the search stack or or you see what I'm
saying? Those things are kind of at odds
with each other.
>> Yeah, there I agree. Uh here there are
ways to combat some of these and that is
I'm a big fan of what I call sub agents
and search as a sub agent is a really
good pattern because you have a main
agent that has a context window. It has
a set of tools
and search is one of those tools. But
when you're calling that search tool,
you're actually searching on other agent
which is a a search agent.
>> Right. You're refining the context or
encapsulating the context and all the
mess inside of this other one.
>> Yes. Exactly. And we use that a lot uh
with Hornet and also with our design
partners. That's a very strong pattern
and it also allows you to use um
different type of model with different
type of capabilities and there is one
model that is trained to be a sub search
agent. Uh Chroma Chroma did one
>> you had S1 uh I think Alolia also no
sorry not Alolia but Glean talked about
another model right where you actually
train a smaller model to
to which is kind of encapsulating the
the complexity and and doing the
searches. So that's also a very strong
direction I think but yeah u distracting
the models through also through prompt
injection which is also a big thing
right uh is also a lot of complexity
related to that
>> so I think it's like the same sphere
yeah there's sid one yeah
>> yeah the um the interesting thing
>> so far I think we've talked about all
the amazing things
LLM are and agents are doing to solve
search given in their current knowledge
of the world in the domain. What gets
interesting is when you like and that's
like a good portion of the problem but
then when it gets interesting is when
you go past that. So my and this always
this is always what happens in search
and every time I go to a new search
problem there is sort of like the
lowhanging fruit and then there is the
stuff very specific to that domain. you
kind of only learn maybe from user
interactions or people who know the
domain really well and a default LLM
doesn't know these things or won't
evaluate results in the same way. You
can of course give the LLM a lot of
knowledge and or create a sub agent that
could evaluate the results, but create a
model that could evaluate the results to
help guide the agent.
Or of course put that as a reranker
behind the scenes in search. Or
you could go what some of these new
models are doing which I think is really
interesting and we're going to see more
of this I think is fine-tuning the an
aentic search model itself that's both
smaller
faster but more targeted this like
exhaustive search. Oh I haven't I have
these backends with imperfect search
tools. let me try to I'm in charge of
evaluating the results to let the main
LM actually focus on the user's
reasoning about the user's problem and
not search itself.
>> Yeah,
>> that's it's an interesting development.
>> Yeah. And by the way, I have a hot take
and I think that the rerankers that we
were talking about a few years ago uh
cross encoders
>> uh just outputting a score unless you're
working at eBay or Yahoo or any other
scale companies, forget about them. I
mean it's it's it's a dead end now. Uh
unless you really want to optimize for
>> uh kind of latency and cost and things
like that. If you are like doing
something for the enterprise or you're
doing something at a lower scale, forget
about specialized rerankers. It's it's a
it's a dead end now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Uh
did you have a question?
>> Yeah. Thank you. Uh fascinating
discussion for sure learning a lot. Um
two two-part question. Um so based on
your conversation it seems like uh
harnesses and are trained along with the
LLM they kind of go with each other. So
people writing harnesses externally
that would be the other question would
be Joe kind of referred to intercepting
grip and doing real search. Can you also
talk a little bit more about that?
That's pretty fascinating in terms of
you're trying to as you said walk in the
footsteps of the harness or the
trajectory that's yeah
>> very fascinating. Thank you.
>> I think generally if you look at
agents are good at traversing a file
system right?
>> Mhm. So if you make your data look like
a file system, you know, it doesn't need
to be a real file system, but you can
make your data look like a file system,
right? Then you are automatically
putting yourself on the trajectory of
where the model companies are kind of
training their models with reinforcement
learning, right? So the agent will be
better at browsing your data, right? And
we've seen
that direction from multiple companies
and there are plenty of blog posts about
it. I think Mint Mintify did a blog post
in that direction.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um
so you you make it look like something
that the model is good at using and it's
good at using GP so and it's good at
using head. It's good at using tail.
It's it's good at using these bash
tools. So you can make your
infrastructure look like that or in
general look like a coding task. And
another very promising direction that we
are chasing a lot is how you can allow
the model to offload some of the
processing
uh outside of the context window by
writing code.
>> So you can write some code to do
something and you can let the agent do
that and then you can save a lot of the
context window by letting it do that.
And it's also highly relevant for
search. I think you also had a blog post
that is touching on on this topic dog.
So
>> yeah, 100%. Yeah, I think it's a there's
a there's a range there. There's just
letting the agent do all its work on its
own. Um and there are techniques like
one thing I think it's all related to
this idea
of
this this takes it even further but like
recursive language models are this idea
of you can forget about the recursive
part but basically the idea of giving a
telling an LLM it's quote unquote
context is on some Python ripple
somewhere in a variable and you should
go and like execute a bunch of code to
manipulate it and find what you need. Um
>> I don't I feel like I'm not I feel like
a lot of these ideas are related to
that. Um and kind of get in that
direction of like giving coding giving
agents that know how to code an
environment to manipulate the data is a
very can be a very effective way for
it's a to navigate that data in a way
that is um it's it's been trained to
know how to do.
>> Dr. your uh comment kind of reminds me
of the Cloudflare article on uh just two
tools search and execute.
>> There was quite a set of
>> Oh, I haven't seen that.
>> Yeah. So, they essentially said that
rather than MCPs overloading the whole
context, they essentially wrote uh two
just two tools. One is search. So, you
just dump the open API spec. search
gives you complete code and then you
send the code to their execute tool
which is essentially um um V8 isolates
uh in in the in the cloud.
So just super mini V8 isolates in the
cloud. So essentially it'll write uh
TypeScript out of the first tool.
>> Yeah.
>> So it's going along the same lines as
you said. LMS are good at producing
code.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. And you typical typical antiattern
is that
>> you
have some tools so that you essentially
have to return
some context from one tool call and put
into another tool call, right? then you
pollute the context window with all that
garbage because you're just going to get
the result from this call this MCP
server and then you're going to put that
data into a call to another MCP server
right instead you simply say okay I'm
going to get the data from this place
and I'm going to fetch something from
here I'm going to do some processing on
it just write the code to do that and
then you are wasting you're not wasting
any of the context window so that's the
direct direction uh that I'm talking
about and it could be things like if
you're going to do some post-processing
ad hoc of some results from a search
tool, right? You can write some ad hoc
code to do that, right? So, yeah.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. And um the other thing I see
people doing in this direction is
which is my talk next week at hastack is
doing auto research types of things uh
on search itself.
>> Yep. So, so maybe you can't have an
agent in the loop of your search, but
can you use an can you use some training
data to guide an agent to generate
useful search retrieval code?
I find this really interesting too
because I mean a you don't need an agent
in loop, but it's also very similar to
how you would train a learning to rank
model or something.
Because
if you basically want to give what I've
seen in this space, you're basically
kind of giving this coding agent. Hey,
here are a few set of search primitives
like
search this field and get a score. Uh
match like do a filter into this other
thing and let it generate code and then
see if you're able to improve whatever
metric you're focused on.
The big thing with that
with any people do this try to like when
I teach my course people will show me
hey I turned on I tried to optimize this
with quad code the thing that you were
building but when you look at the code
if you just tell quad code to optimize
something some relevance thing you'll
see a lot of if then so if this query
then return this ranked results if this
other query return these other ranked
results. So just like training any other
model, you really have to have good
holdout data. You have to have a harness
in place that tells the agent or tells
the coding agent that hey, you're
overfit and you have to do really work
really hard to prevent these sort of
overfit situations. But it can still be
a really powerful tool that can give you
a piece of code which is sort of like
giving you a model without having to
have some kind of like heavy inference
hardware somewhere to like to run this
uh run this model somewhere. So I think
that's another interesting application
of all this stuff.
>> Yeah, I'm also going to Berlin busword
uh where I will be giving a talk about
how you can kind of let agents optimize
search infrastructure. Um, and it's
aligning with what you're saying about
auto research. I'm not sure if everyone
knows about auto research, but maybe you
read it before, but it's essentially
giving an agent some goal and a number
to make this number go up and you set
some constraints and you set some test
set and hold out set and then you let
the agent rip. It's quite effective for
a lot of different things um uh
including performance optimizations,
including uh research, including
ranking, lots of interesting aspects
there. And also since
models are also the frontier models are
good at are relatively good at um
evoluting relevancy uh you can build
some pretty amazing feedback loops um
there especially for domains where you
don't have a lot of user signals. So
yeah interesting
>> true yeah
>> uh Tito did you have a question? Yeah.
Um, when I think about agents, I think
that ultimately their goal is to
complete tasks or achieve some goals and
they don't necessarily
have foresight into what are the best
sources to search against to accomplish
that. Now with an enterprise agent
that's been tuned for a specific task
like uh I don't know like some kind of
medical or legal agent
you know you can optimize the model to
say okay well these are these are really
good sources and when you search these
this is how you should search them etc.
But I'm thinking about personal agents
or personal tasks
>> where you know you have people that are
trying to accomplish something. Maybe
they're trying to It seems like a lot of
the examples that come up in this space
are like travel related just because
that domain is complex like I want to
book a trip and I want you to do all
these things. M
>> wondering how
how that how that's working now and how
it's going to work in the future where
you have a human who has an agent who's
accomplishing a task and there may be
dozens or hundreds of potential sources
to
search against to accomplish the task.
It would seem to me and then and with
I'm giving an assumption here that this
person's not going to fine-tune their
agent or do anything like that. It seems
like we may be moving towards a world of
competitiveness
>> in terms of search providers that are
optimized for
receiving and interpreting and
supporting
agent searches. Um, and that the ones
that are do the best at that are going
to be the ones where the agents come
back. And then the ones who are more
brittle or hard to search against or
have or have high latency or who don't,
you know, have good query un query
relaxation or whatever.
Yeah, we're not the agent's not coming
back to those. thoughts on on on that
sort of uh consumer consumer user agent
problem.
>> Absolutely. Another area similar area to
that that I think about is recruiters
that go out to lots of job search sites
and need to gather candidates and that
is and there some of these are also long
live tasks. That's another thing we
haven't really gotten into is what is a
search
look like that is like I'm searching to
fill a job wreck over the course of a
month and there's an agent waking up to
explore what in what's on Indeed or
what's on LinkedIn
and in these cases I can see if the
LinkedIn search is able to satisfy my
agent better than the Indeed search then
there is a competitive advantage
but what I don't What would be and that
might work? I what I what I'm really
curious about is will the market go in
the direction of well you just use
LinkedIn's agent and you only stay on
LinkedIn and LinkedIn has the
owns the the the agent or is the agent
something you own as I guess your point
about personal agents and you're linking
in all of these other things. I I don't
quite know where the market would go
with that. I mean probably both to some
>> the the problem that I'm framing is the
problem that in a consumer context
the users may the humans may not really
be part of the feedback loop.
>> So the human is defining this is the
goal.
>> The agent now is trying to figure out
how to satisfy the goal. the agent in
satisfying the goal. Let's take your
example uh Doug of recruiting may hit 12
different recruiting sites and because
agents are have are recursive in their
learning, it could be that a very short
search visit could prevent that agent
from coming back because
>> either you're not getting results or
you're getting crappy results. And then
the agents that are more optimized for
that type of searching give good
results. So then now that agent wants to
go back there more.
>> This is almost like an it's like a
inverted SEO
>> and I I don't don't see like people are
talking about this issue but I would
imagine that the providers that are set
up to be agentfriendly are going to be
the winners in the future.
>> Yeah,
>> I think it's a good observation. I think
personalization in search is easier than
ever because of incontext learning. Uh
this used to be very hard right to
influence ranking and build models for
personalization is a lot easier now
>> um because of in context learning. I do
agree that related to consumer search
and the new internet for agents and the
web and consumer and all of that is that
you know API first will be a thing
right. uh you will see all the search
providers that are out there that have
interesting data, they will be forced to
expose APIs for agents and obviously
there's like a huge debate about how do
you pay these and how do you pay per
query and things like that that's going
to be solved but then there's nothing
stopping you from on the API side having
agentto agent communication where your
personalized agent will like here's my
preferences here's the stuff that my
user is caring about and add that to the
reasoning trace or add it to the
additional parameter for the API call
for a different agent and that different
agent will go and search through Amazon
or search through LinkedIn or search
through web data or Reddit. So there's
going to be like a whole new economy
around you know uh giving API access and
giving agents access to all kinds of
data but the only thing at the moment is
that we are stuck at some kind of the
pricing the ad and all of that right is
still up in the air how that's going to
be solved um you know how how these
internet service providers are or sorry
these providers are going to be paid for
the agent traffic. Yeah.
>> Yeah, definitely. Um,
maybe the last question and
>> Oh, hey. Uh, this is Jen. I'm from work,
uh, clean. So,
>> [snorts]
>> uh, hey, thanks.
>> Is Waldo, is this your work we're
talking about with Waldo and everything?
>> Uh, yeah, we just released that model.
So, is I'm I'm glad that you guys were
followed to the market. Yeah, really
pleased.
>> That's awesome.
Yeah. So,
>> well, thanks for coming. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. I'll
definitely come in the next sense. This
is super super helpful and really
appreciate with you guys. Uh I had this
quick question. So, with your uh idea, I
just wanted to follow up on the idea
like we're running like a grip with code
on the file system. So uh so we're still
having like I I feel like you guys are
like at the beginning you guys saying
that you are very uh seeing the indexing
still a direction that like works for
followup but sounds like with this uh
grip and the fail system type of work
this is like sounds like we're not like
going to do the indexing like indexing
is not in the loop anymore. So my
question is like what do you think like
uh in the future if this which direction
is more sounds like promising and also
the second question is uh do you think
to keep our system of record in the file
system is much more important than
before because uh both our indexing of
our indexing work and uh uh like the
this is kind like kind of like a grip
with uh agent generated code work in the
file system. So uh is that is is that
makes sense that we have to like persist
our all data from the database or
whatever to a file system uh in the
company switcher.
>> I would love I would love answering that
question,
>> right?
>> Oh, go for it. Yeah. Yeah.
>> I I mean this is a perfect uh perfect
question. I mean first GP uh relates to
scanning versus indexing, right?
Indexing is simply about optimizing some
data structure because you're going to
do searches a lot or you have a large
scale and you have to be able to search
in with a limited time budget, right? So
I don't you can in you can do BM25
without building an index, right? You
can scan through the data if you want to
and then calculate statistics and keep a
top K heap. So I think that discussion
is simply like how do you optim what do
you optimize for? Um the second answer
to that is also that you don't
necessarily need to scan. You just need
make sure that you look like GP, right?
You support some of the syntax of GP,
but the implementation of it could be
powered by something else, right? And
the same thing applies to a file system.
If you store your data in a database or
in a retrieval engine, right, you can
build an abstraction layer which makes
it look like a file system, right? So
you can build a virtual file system on
top of it. So you don't have to dump
your database into a file system, a real
file system, and then let it uh rip.
It's just simply creating abstractions
and APIs that look like u the tasks that
the current models are great at.
Oh, got it. Well, that's very uh
insightful thinking over here. I really
appreciate it, sir.
>> Yeah. And the interesting thing about it
is um you know, if you go to a
medium-sized even large e-commerce site,
a lot of how people think about search
is in a much more metadata oriented way
than maybe a knowledgeoriented search.
The queries are understood and mapped to
different kinds of metadata and things.
And what's interesting about the virtual
file systems is it's like it's almost
like different perspectives on the data
that are organized by different ways of
organizing metadata. And then in a sense
that virtual file systems if you were to
write that out on your file system that
is itself a a lot of what we think of
when we do quote unquote indexing in
search. It's sort of like a level of
organization of the data.
>> Yeah. And then when you've organized the
data that way, like that is solving a
major part of the search problem. So
yeah, it's uh then you're like, can I
just get by with GREP or do I need some
kind of scoring is maybe the other part.
And maybe one thing we also didn't one
thing that's important that I've noticed
when building virtual file system based
search is you need to um the the you
really miss the scoring sometimes
because GP can scan and really fill up
the context whereas the scoring is
valuable to sort of like manage context.
It's like the top it's actually useful
to know the top 10.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. But uh if you look at the way it's
doing gp and uh sometimes it includes a
regular expression other times it can
just simply use the pipe character to
mean like try any of these right and you
can intercept that and use a real
relevancy capable retrieval engine like
hornet to actually search your data in a
in a meaningful way where you're
focusing on on relevancy and be much
more token efficient than
um what GP is and I think in essence you
know we have been working on search for
a long time right we know about
precision we know about recall and
recall is essentially about finding all
the relevant information right and
precision is about finding nothing but
the relevant information and that's
essentially what context engineering is
about right you want all the relevant
information to get the task done but
that's easy because you can just stuff
whatever context you have all the
context and just stuff it into the
window and then that's perfect recall
right but that doesn't work really well
right so you need the precision
component so I feel a lot of the things
that we've been working on for 25 years
or 20 years on relevancy and precision
and recall is now even more relevant
because you can apply those same
principles to context engineering
>> absolutely and And I probably need to
close. Uh this has been a fantastic
conversation and uh I shared Joe's
hornet. You can find Joe basically
everywhere on X on LinkedIn and um yeah
I think this is I if we haven't
convinced hopefully we've convinced you
that agentic search is really the thing
coming and we haven't even touched on
like all Joe ended with talking about
context engineering. There are many,
many, many little search problem. I'm
not even sure they're little, but
they're search problems like retrieving
skills or agentic memory. And it feels
like every other day I'm opening social
media and like, oh, I have to go learn
about this now.
>> So,
>> so, uh, yeah, I think that's a good
place to to leave it. Um, please
definitely stay in touch, check me out,
uh, everywhere, and yeah, hope to see
you in a future class or lightning
lesson. Thank you so much, Joe, and
thanks everyone for coming.
>> Thank you so much. This has been great.
I could talk about search and identic
search as you can tell from
same.
>> Thank you.
>> Take care. Thank you everyone. Bye-bye.